Hello there, children. How are you today? Welcome to another fun learning week kids.
Last time we had Learned about addition, we said that addition is the process of putting numbers together or objects together so that we would know how many objects are there in all.
Today we will have another lesson and that is about subtraction. Everybody say subtraction, correct? And what is subtraction?
It is a process or skill of taking one number or many numbers or amount away from another. So remember and take note of the word.
Next, it is an arithmetic operation that represents the operation of removing objects from a collection. So here we would take note of the word-removing, so that it's taking away or removing. 
It is the opposite of addition. The addition is putting numbers together. Now with the subtraction, you will take it away or remove it.
Now let's take a look at this one. Let us read, five minus two equals three. Look at the pictures that I have here. So we got here five apples and two were crossed out.
Now let's see the number, five, yeah kids is what you call the menuend. That is the bigger number. Now the smaller number that you have there, that the next one is called subtrahend. 
 That is the number that you take away and the answer in subtraction is called difference. Can you say it again? Very good. That's difference. And the symbol that you will use here is minus. You say minus.
Now let me tell you and let me teach you the different ways and how to do subtraction.
 First, we use pictures or objects to do subtraction. So I have here pictures and this will help us a lot in subtraction. 
What are you going to do? First, count all the objects together. Now let us count all the numbers that we have here.
All the object, 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10. So there are 10 objects that we have here.
Now coat all the objects with X. So the next one, next procedure is you find all the objects with X and you count them. 
Let's count 1,2,3, 4. So there were 4. So you would say 10-4. So out of this 10, you will remove the 4.
ow, what's gonna be the answer? Count the remaining objects. Let us count 1,2,3,4,5,6. 
 So the remaining objects are 6. And therefore, that is the difference or the answer. So you would say 10 minus 4 equals 6.
Next, we use pictures or objects to do subtraction. 5 minus 3 equals what's going to be the answer? So here we don't have access yet. 
We have pictures. So what are you going to do first? Cross out objects as many as the given subtrahend. 
So the subject hand that we have here is a smaller number, which is three. So we're going to cross out three among the five dots. Let's do it 1,2, and 3.
Now count the remaining objects without X, that is 2,1,2. So that's gonna be your answer. 
So you would say 5 or minus 3 equals 2. So it became easy because of the objects that we used.
Now let us try find the difference. Let us count the objects first. 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10. So there are 10 objects. 
And how many accesses are there? 1, 2. Okay, so you write 2 that says 10 minus 2. How will you find the answer? Very good.
Count the remaining objects without x, 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8. So your answer is eight. So you would say ten minus two equals eight.
Next number two, let's count all the objects together. 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,2, got there, 8. And then count all the x, 1,2,3. So you got 3.
That says 8-3. Now, how will you find the answer? Correct? Again, count all the objects without x, one, two, three, four, five. So the answer is 5.
Very good, children. We are getting it. Now I'll show you some more ways of doing subtraction. 
No.2, we can use our fingers to do subtraction. Wow, that's gonna be exciting. So get ready with your fingers now, kids. So let's have 5 minus 3 equals 2.
We're going to five minutes are using our fingers. first. Show the total numbers with your fingers.
So let us have five. That's gonna be the minuend. So you have to show all of that. So that's five.
Now, next step, fold the number of fingers according to the given subtrahend. So what is our subtrahend? Very good. 
That's the smaller number. So we got three. So let's fold 1, 2 and 3. Are you able to do it?
Here we get, now count the remaining fingers that were not folded. Let's count 1,2. Since two fingers are left, that is our answer. So we would say 5 minus three equals 2.
It was easier because we used our fingers. Let us have another one we can count on to do subtraction. 
Remember, in addition, we did the counting on. We can do that also in subtraction. 
Here is the problem 6-4. What's the answer? First, find the smaller number. So which is smaller? Is it 6 or 4? Very good. 4 has the smaller value. And that is the subtrahend. 
Next, think of the next number to it and count on stop to the bigger number using your fingers. 
Okay, next, the number of fingers or markings you've used to reach to the minimum and put the audience. 
Let's do it step by step. So the smaller number is the 4. Now think of the next number to No.4. That is 5. Good. five.
Oh, hey there. You're back. Good to see you. This week, we're also learning about rainbows. Our lesson of the week is on rainbows. 
Look at this beautiful rainbow. I made this rainbow. And you can make a rainbow at home, too.
Rainbows. That's what we're going to learn about this week. But before we do that, we should sing our rainbow song. Will you sing the rainbow song with me? How about this? 
I will sing the song first so you can hear it and then we can sing it together. Are you ready? Okay, let's start with the rainbow song. 
That's our Rainbow song. Really simple. Do you think you can try and sing it with me this time? Okay, let's do it together and we'll keep doing it all week until you learn it. You ready? Let's do it. 
Since we're learning about rainbows, we're going to read different books about rainbows so we can learn a little more about where rainbows come from. 
And make sure you join me every day this week because on Thursday we're going to do a rainbow science experiment. 
That's gonna be a lot of fun. And I'm going to need your help. So make sure you come on back so we can do the rainbow science experiment on Thursday.
But for now, let's read a book about rainbows. Today we're reading Minnie's Rainbow, a Disney Storybook. 
Minnie has just finished reading a book. She's asked all her friends to come take a look. She Learned about something you see in the sky, a colorful arch that the birds fly right by. 