I think they have more in common than people might expect. You know, the idea that you find what an innovation is gonna be, really stick to it, build a team behind that, have some setbacks and successes that, you know, kind of a theory of change.
Now my Microsoft work was when I was very young. I started when I was 17, and that was my primary focus until I was 53 when I made the transition. And for the early part of that, I was kind of maniacal. I wasn't married, no kids. I didn't believe in weekends until I was about 30. I didn't believe in vacations at all. So it was incredibly fulfilling to write the code and be hands on, you know, stay up all night.
And then after I, you know, met Melinda, got married, sort of kids, I was looking at the world more broadly, thinking about where the wealth should go. And I'd say they're equally difficult. You always know you could be doing better, that you should learn more, that you know, getting, building the team and thinking about things in a better way. So you see the positive results, but you always want to do even better.
It was a fairly special time because computers when I was young, were super expensive. And my friend Paul Allen and I actually snuck into places at the university of Washington where they had computers that weren't being used at night. And so we were fascinated by what the computer could do, but very few people were getting an exposure. We had to go out of our way. And we were lucky that we did it all. 
They knew I was obsessed with computers, that I would skip athletics, that I go in overnight, that I, you know, leave the house sometimes when they prefer I went go work at night on these things. And so it's kind of considered a little strange. And the big moment was when I said, instead of going to part of my senior year, that I wanted to go work for company writing software. So they were great about allowing that to be my hobby.
You know, we've never been focused on usage as a key parameter. We want people to be incredibly satisfied and empowered by our, the devices that we show. But we've never wanted people to spend a lot of time on them or all of their time on them. And, you know, it's a personal thing as to how much is too much. We thought a lot about this, and we're rolling out great tools to both make people aware of how much time they're spending and the apps that they're spinning in, but also how many times they pick up their phone, how many notifications they get, who is sending them the notifications. 
Oh yeah, I think this is the reality of a lot of young people in South Africa or other African countries, shall we say. There's something, if we have time, there's something that I'd like to add, hopefully. But for now, let me just write it down so that if we have time, just remind me, it's called black text so we can come back to that. 
This is the question that many my peers would really care about. It's like, okay, how do young people, especially the people who are between 20 to 30 years old, because we called decade, defining decade that is. So how do you deal with peer pressure?
That's a good question. I think gap years tend to be when, yeah, you kind of disappear. Quite a lot of people go traveling tends to be just doing something in between kind of education and work maybe. So we get quite a lot of people straight out of university going on gap years or people just before going to university on gap years, maybe going backpacking or traveling somewhere or something like that.
Well, I, that's a bit, that's a big topic. I generally, for me, I'm not a big fan of regulation. I think self regulation is the best. But when it's not working, and in some cases it's not working, you have to ask yourself, so what form of regulation might be good? And I think that it's a fair question that many of people are asking at this point.
Well, I think the privacy thing has gotten totally out of control. And I think most people are not aware of who is tracking them, how much they're being tracked and sort of the large amounts of detailed data that are out there about them nor about the companies that possess the data.
My, look, my view as a country is, as a country, we should have a goal of having the smartest people in the world here. That's what is great for America. More jobs will be created and all the rest.
I don't think about it to at all. To be. I don't think about it at all. I mean, for us, we believe that if we do the right thing for our users, if we put them at the center of our experience, which we always do. And we're focusing on innovating and delivering the right products that the results, which are things like market cap and revenues and profits that will come from doing these things, right? So we focus over here. 
I am very optimistic because no one will win from that, art. It will be a lose. And I think that when the facts are so clear like that, I think that both parties will see that and be able to work things out.
I I am and I'm not sure I would really do well in that environment. I think that I can make the greatest contribution doing what I'm doing. And so that's how I feel about that. That's a no, I don't see it. I don't see it. I just, I love getting things done and I don't love the political machine in the background.
I don't know what the numbers are. It's different for each of us. And, but I think the power is now shifted to the user, and that has been what apple has always been about, is giving the power from the institution to the user. And I am very hopeful that great things are gonna happen from that.
It does. Why? Because it's the reason I'm on the face of the earth. So it makes it really personal, right? That this is the role I play. I think the data gives you the power and the, you can't, it doesn't lie. It's just the facts. And, and so I think it's a very powerful moment for people when they begin getting it.
For me, I look at this other things that are monitored in my life. The watch has been unbelievable for me. I can no longer say, oh, I did this workout. It really, I was really hard. Now the watch knows and I use a app from a company that we bought called Bette to measure my sleep. This was one where my view of what I was doing in the reality totally right. Huge difference.
The idea of taking control back, but The power is in the user. And that is, that has been, if you think about apple, we made video editing software that only very rich companies could afford. We made it so that consumers and consumers could afford. And so this whole, this repeats itself over and over again.
I mean, forgetting the humanity in things, forgetting that are all of our products should be infused with humanity, forgetting that we have a broader obligation to society. I mean, these things, but I do not fear machine.
I absolutely do. I don't subscribe to the machines taking over the world. And I don't worry about that. I worry much more about people thinking like machines. What do you mean the machines thinking like people? That's interesting. 
I bought one thing that was a tiny bit of a splurge with was that my first car that I owned was a Porsche 911. It was used, but it was an incredible car. And that was actually when I was down in Albuquerque and sometimes when I would wanna think at night, I just go out and drive around it at high speed. Unfortunately, I didn't  doing that.
Well, Warren, I thought of somebody who bought and sold securities, which is a very zero sum thing. That's not curing disease or a cool piece of software. And the idea of, you know, kind of looking at volume curves and that's why it was so shocking when I met him.
1995 is a big year where we ship product conveniently called Windows 95, and our softwares doing well. And we emerge, we had always had the greatest depth of engineering, and we were slightly the biggest, but we really emerges these successful company. And, and so I start thinking about, wow, you know, there's a lot of value here at Microsoft.
Well, I'm certainly nowhere near as hands on as I was when I would either write the code or look it over and hire all the programmers. And in my career, this evolution of being an individual performer than a manager or managers and then setting broad strategy. You have to get used to the fact you don't have as much control.
But now things are a little bit bitter because the government has become lenient, I guess if I could say, on students. And they is like a, is this thing called ness risk. So this is basically what helps a lot of students in paying for their tuition and beta is that they do not have to pay back anymore. 
But in a few years ago, I cannot remember when exactly they would have to pay the money back. So things are getting better. A lot of disadvantaged students do get opportunities too steady now. So yeah, it's getting better.
Yes. Okay. It's a hard one. I think it hits hard on an individual. For me, it really hits hard. Sometimes I out, I've had times where I regretted it. I was like, okay, maybe I should have studied harder when I was in high school and I could have possibly got an adversary that would have helped me, you know. 
So there was that sense of recreate and I was like, now I've just, you know, extended my years in school and I should have been done by now. I have to start. You see people that you in high school with graduating people that were like in younger, that are younger than you, they graduate and you're like, yeah, yeah. So that's something that I had to deal with.
And one of the things that help me was understanding the fact that we are all on different journeys. We come from different backgrounds, not everyone is able to do, you know, the standard traditional way of life as we may see it or follow according to that standard. And that's okay. You know, I was able to help my family in the little that I could during the time that I was working. And I got to a point where I'm now able to study and pay for myself.
And, you know, I, it's some of these things that sort of bring the joy behind that. And I also gained quite a lot of experience. There are jobs that I did that I know. This is something that I never wanna do for the rest of my life, you know, so learning, I Learned a lot within my gap year, Learned a lot, I explored a lot as well. And so that has helped shape the person that I am. Even going forward with what I'm studying right now, I've, I've Learned a lot.
How do I deal with peer pressure? Okay. So this is, I think this has to do with the type of person that I am of. This is weird to say, but I, let me just try and explain it. I've always been told that I was a, had hard not to crack. I don't know if you've ever heard that expression.
This is what this was. When I was in high school, there was nothing anyone could ever say to me or try to convince me to believe or do that I would do that I did not wanna do, you know. So I was like very rigid. I was very firm. I think in many ways it help me, but in some other ways I wish I had, you know, let Luce a little, but I was very firm in who I am, what I can do. And so peer pressure was never a problem for me. I'll just be like whatever. That was the type of person that I was.
Who am I? What would I like my life to be? You know, mainly it's the core values, the principles, what governs my life, what are my belief systems. So I had to relearn all these things and had to be okay with being boring. I have been cold, boring more times than I can count. I had to be okay with that. I was like, it's fine. You know, I had to pump myself up. I'm like, boy, boring is awesome, you know, so that help me. 
Yeah, good question. So I would encourage, look, I would encourage everybody to travel, to be honest, or again, like it depends how you define it and what you call like a gap year or something like that, but I think it's becoming more and more rare for people for, to take extended time off. You know, like I think like I am working abroad, but every now and again, like maybe once a year or something like that, I'd like to take maybe six weeks off to travel around a specific place or to travel around something like that. 
And I think that's where, you know, midlife crises come from. People get to 40 or 50 years old and realize they haven't done any of the things that they wanted to do when they were younger, you know, so yeah, I don't, I think I would encourage anybody and whether that's traveling, whether that's just taking a year to just, I don't volunteer even in your home country, maybe even, you know, some people just do a job that they don't have to care about, you know, go work in a bar for a year, you know, do something low stress and just relax for a year, something like that.
So yes, I would encourage it. I would say that everybody should do it, to be honest, because, but yeah, otherwise what are you gonna do? You just go to go start a job and do that for the next 40 years, you know.
So honestly, I think when I take six weeks off, I'm not doing nothing. I'm constantly trying to. No, it's fine. No, it's alright. So I have some friends who do the same things, who take six weeks and go and just sit on a beach or something. When I take five or six weeks, I'm constantly moving, constantly trying to do stuff, constantly trying to see as much stuff.
Yes. Well, can I ask you as well, Fiona, like, how do you feel about that? Like in terms of what can I ask? Have you taken a gap year? Have you done anything like this? How do you feel about these sorts of things?
Okay, that's a great question, actually. Yeah, cuz I think that's something that I think we're all worried about. And like, I think it's very easy. Oh, I think that's a great phrase as well, a defining decade. I don't think I've ever heard it being put like that. But I think you're right. It's so bizarre that we have, you know, you spend your whole childhood up until like 18,19,20 years old looking forward to, you know, being an adult and studying and getting out of the house and things like this.
And then, like you said, realistically, you have, you know, especially if you want to settle down and start a family, you maybe have until you're 30,35 to sort of do all the things you wanna do and get yourself settled, get yourself into a career that you like, get yourself a home, get yourself, so yeah, right into a position that you feel comfortable. 
And even like, even if you don't want to settle down, even if you don't want kids, I think that's still a position, you know, it's seen as, it's still seen as kind of shameful to be 35 or 40 without like a solid job and a house and things like this. So yeah, there's a lot of pressure, sure, on that sort of thing. 
There's a lot of things that you wanna do. And like you said, we are surrounded by people on Instagram, on Facebook and Twitter who have their own businesses, who have a PhD and they're raising kid by themselves and they have four dogs and look at me, I'm on a beach and things like it. And that we, you know, and there's there's we want to achieve every single goal because we're kind of told that we should.
I think as well. We're kind of told that if we're not ambitious, if we don't want to do these things, I think we're, you know, we're kind of seen as guilty of being lazy and unambitious and things like this. So yeah, I think the main thing is, I don't know, not having that chance to work out what you want to do, you know, and not having that time to sort of spend thinking about what you wanna do, you know, I, it's very easy when you're 20. And I did the same thing of thinking I've got my whole life.
I don't need to worry about this sort of stuff. I can put this off and I'm just gonna, you know, spend time with my friends and do very little, which is still completely acceptable. You know, that's absolutely a fine thing to do and that's a great way to spend your 20s.
But I think it's, I think planning ahead and working out what you want to do, what do you want to achieve, what is it that you want to be? I think that's so important. And I, it's not really something that I did.
I kind of ended up traveling and doing this sort of stuff by accident, almost like I had a job lined up after university and that fell through. And so I ended up doing this instead. And I'm so grateful that I did because it's been incredible. But I don't know. I would never have done this if I'd been accepted into my job. And I probably would have been, you know, in the middle of a rat race right now if I had accepted it.
So I don't know if there's no easy solution, there's no easy thing. But I think being honest with yourself and deciding where you want to be and where you want to go. And I think as well, just choosing one or two goals that you want, you know.
And so, for example, if you want to travel, you know, not having a goal of traveling the world, but maybe travel Asia, maybe see two or three countries in Central Europe, maybe go to Iceland. You know, I having a smaller goal that you can attain instead of, you know, I want to have a million followers on Instagram.
I wanna travel the world. I wanna be a fashion designer. I want to have a blog and a YouTube channel and a podcast and all of these things. And I want them tomorrow, you know? Yeah, I don't know, having, not having that shame of taking more time to do something, I guess I don't know. I suppose.
Can I ask you then, Fiona, if I may, in terms of like, I don't know, would you agree with some of this? Would you disagree, I don't know. How would you feel about that same sort of peer pressure or just general pressure towards your 20s and the things that are kind of expected of people. What do you think?
I have to say, just like you said, to be honest with myself, I cannot say I don't care about that or I cannot feel that. But the method that I'm doing right now myself is set a timing for myself.
I also was fortunate enough when I was in college to study my my very first trimester in college, I took introductory to psychology and loved it. I studied a lot of economics, a lot of psychology, and, but I ended up, I actually majored in linguistics, which is another social science.
So I was always keenly interested in it. I think if I had my, if I can totally see in retrospective my life that I would have become a professor rather than doing. No, the noble hackery that I'm doing today.
Well, I also think it's you. Thank you for that. I'm not sure that it's humble as it is accurate. I think a lot of times these, these, there are different Vantage points in looking at these journeys. And I like the metaphor of a journey, the different Vantage points in looking at these journeys. So if you're in it and you're in your, navigating your way, at least for me, there was much less tension then one would think luck, that kind of thing.
I think that in some cases, just because it makes us more comfortable existentially, we look back on these things and say, oh, there was a clear narrative to that journey. Yeah, and there might be. I think that retrospective look is actually valid, is valid joke.
Yeah, it's a bit, a really interesting question, probably more profound than I realize. I think that one of them is the virtue of simplicity. I think that there, and, and you and and you know, and you know is living in a Japanese Zen garden style house. That there is in Japanese design in certain sorts, forms of just Japanese culture, there is a premium on that simplicity.
And I think in many cases, in many realms of particularly American and particularly kind of elite, well educated American circles, there is this kind of performative complexity. I mean, forgive even that phrase. 
Performative complexity is an example. Well, no, it's total because it's an example of performative complexity. Basically, what it is that people wanna feel smart and the way that they wanna feel smart is by making things really complicated. 
And to me, one of the things I absorb from spending time there is actually the keenest form of intelligence is to make things as simple as you possibly, simple and clear and elegant as you possibly can, whether you are writing a book, whether you're making a film, whether you're building a house, whether you're raising a family, anything like that. There's a virtue in that kind of simplicity and clarity. So I think that's probably the thing that sunk in the most for me.
I didn't have any master in the language that would, that was hard for me, too. That was hard for me. Although I think there is something, you know, even in the victorial aspect of the language, where a single character, a single image represents something that's actually per, they can actually something be fairly complex.
So if you take out some, a notion that is complex, like luck, okay, there'll be a character for luck. I know that's true, obviously in Chi. That's true obviously in Chinese as well. I just thought that when the, if you look at even Japanese aesthetics, it's, and even Japanese cuisine unadorned it, you know, like really good Japanese cuisine is unadorned.
And, and so I think that that has been that way of thinking has probably had a bigger affect on me then I realize. In fact, in some ways, Jay, your question is making me understand that, that had a bigger effect because I do think that their clarity and simplicity to me are such that those are things that I as up as a creator and as a consumer prize very deeply.
Yeah, that's another really interesting question. I don't think I've ever intentionally gone after that, but there is there is a a decent amount of there's a decent amount of research showing aspects of this. So for instance, so, so for I, I, I give you something profound and something mundane, right?
So on the on the on the Monday is it's a concept in linguistics which is known as processing fluency. And all processing fluency means is that the message, the words that the communication you're making goes down easily. Alright? So it's, it goes down easily.
Now that's a virtue in and of itself. But one of the things that we know from linguistics and some from some social psychology is that processing fluency enhances believability, not only understanding but believability. And there's a dark side of this. And so what you see is that things that enhance processing fluency are effective in getting your message across. An example would be repetition. Okay, we know that, right? Like repetition is effective. Repetition increases people's understanding. It increases their believability.
Now there's a downside to that. Even things like rhyming, there's some brilliant research showing that messages that rhyme are not only considered more understandable, but actually more believable. Alliteration lists and things like that. 
Okay. That I think the more profound thing is that when you look at say things like your listeners, some of your listeners are probably familiar with famous grant study out of Harvard where they followed a group of men. It was all at the time was all men. I think it was all white men in. 
Graduated from Harvard in the nineteen forty, something like that. And they follow. I might be a little bit off in the years. They, they, they, and they follow them through the course of their lives, you know, checking, you know, a massive longitudinal study. They also did it with, they later did a group of working class men, all men from Boston. 
And one of the things that you see from the grant study is that, you know, like, what makes somebody satisfied? What makes somebody happy with their life? And it turned out that is completely unadorned. It's basically, do you have somebody you love and do you have people who love you? Period, full stop. That's it.
So the adornment that we were talking about in Japanese cuisine, that the lack of adornment in Japanese cuisine is that are the best lives in some ways are unadorned lives that are not adorned by the trappings of wealth or performative complexity or posturing or status seeking, but are the simplicity of, do you have people who love you and do you have people what you love?
I know I've actually ordered, I've actually, there's a wine from, from that, from Sardinia around the grape. I'm spacing out of what the variety is. I've actually gone out and looked and ordered wine from Sardinia because for that very reason. Oh, that's.
Yeah, I think that's right. It's interesting. There is a, it's an interesting, it's in some ways a linguistic question. No joke. About like, what's the right word to describe what you and I are talking about? Cuz I feel like you and I are talking about something. Well, at least what I think is important and quite interesting, but our vocabulary that, or at least in English, might be impoverished and doesn't have the quite right term for that.
I think you use a really important, where they're essential. It's partly about what, you know, what is fundamental. And I do think that this idea that we know that simplicity and ambition can be easily twin, no more question about it. I mean, you mentioned that one of your guiding quotations was from, was from for was from Einstein.
Yeah, so that is actually that. I'm gonna put the answer to that in more of the mundane category. The reason for the impetus for was just frustration more than anything else. It wasn't any kind of deep conceptual fascination.
So here we are, you know, on top view from, this is my office here in Washington, DC it's the refurbish one car garage behind my house. I live there right there. And so, you know, I'd, I would come to my office and do stuff, do work. And at a certain point, I realize I would have a to do list and maybe I would have appointments on the calendar, but I wasn't intentional at all about when I was doing stuff.
Well, I would write when I felt like writing. I would make phone calls when I felt like making phone calls. I would do interviews when I felt like doing interview, you know, and I wasn't intentional about it.
The and I said, that's great. That's crazy. Like I end up, I'm actually a fairly kind of rational, I like to think I am at least fairly rational evidence based guy. And I'm making these decisions about when to do things. I'm not even making decisions. I'm just kind of stumbling my way into it.
And so I said, well, there's gonna be some guidance out there on like when we should do things. And I found to my surprise that there wasn't. And that got me really curious and said, well, I wonder if there's anybody's ever researched this. So I started looking around for research and in turn, it, there was a huge amount of research on this question, but it was splattered all over the place.
It was in literally 2,000 different domains. So it wasn't like you say, oh, there's a sociologist who studies timing. Well, there might be. There is. There are, but there are also biologists who do that. There are economists who study that. There are microbiologists who have study, epidemiologists. There's a whole field called Chrono biology.
But also to your other point, Jay, when we think about our lives, our lives are episodic. Episodes have beginnings. The episodes have middles and episodes have ends. The whole idea, the journey metaphor you introduced earlier is like journeys have beginnings, they have middles, and they have ends.
And it turns out that there is some fascinating research on how our cognitive abilities change over the course of the day and then more episodically, how beginnings affect us, how midpoints affect us, how endings affect us.
There's research on how groups coordinate in time. There's research on how the way we think about time affects our behavior. There's research, again, all roads lead back to linguistics. There's research based on the way that languages configure their verb tenses. It can predict people's savings behavior, as crazy as that sounds.
And again, depending on your notion of time, sort of philosophically, existentially, we are in some ways moving through time. At the very least, our conversation began in the past, it's gonna end in the future, right?
The people who are gonna listen to the recorded version of this are listening to something that happened in the past. But they had, but those people haven't done anything yet cuz that's in the future. And, and so we're sort of swimming in this essential element of our lives. And so what I was just trying to do is just make it.
Understandable. And I think you did a phenomenal job. And so I wanna dive into different parts of it. I guess my first question is like, there's actually there's a few things sucks. The first one is, I think the most common relationship. And of course, I'm making a huge Assumption here, but I think maybe we'll agree. Maybe your research will say something else. 
But I'd say my Assumption is that the most common relationship, and I believe everyone has a relationship with money, we have a relationship with time, we have a relationship with anything, knowledge, wisdom, etcetera. And so our relationship with time for most people is, I always feel like I don't have enough, right?
That is a very clear relationship that we all have with timers. Like I don't have enough time, I can't make enough time, I can't find time. Like we say all these words which are all about making, finding, creating, having. What does that do? What does that mindset toward time, how does that actually affect our behavior.
Our relationship with time? We can think of it as an ally. We can think of it as an enemy. In some ways, that's oversimplifying in that case. But I think if what we're trying to, and one way to make time your ally rather than your enemy is to recognize the effect, often invisible, that it has on your life. So if you look so, so I'll give you an example.
What we know from, let's just take the unit of a day, what we know very clearly from a whole array of research is that our brainpower does not remain constant over the course of a day. Our brain power changes over the course of the day. So doing something at 9 AM. Is not the same as doing something at 3 PM. Period, full stop.
Now there's some complexity underneath that. But the main idea is that our brain power doesn't remain constant over the course of a day, and the best time to do something depends on what it is you're actually doing.
So once you understand those kinds of hidden, invisible rules, you can begin to make time your ally rather than your enemy and end up mitigating some of those feelings that you never, that one never has enough time. 
So I think that's part of what it is, people who feel like they don't have enough time. This is not something I write about, but I'll find about it anyway. In many cases, people who don't feel like they have enough time. 
Sometimes, not always, sometimes it's not a time, it's not a sufficiency of time issue, it's a sufficiency of priority issue. But they actually don't have any clarity about their purpose of their priorities. And so the're moving in all kinds. And that's not always the case, but I think that's, that's partly the case.
The other thing that we know is that when time becomes extremely salient in our lives, we underperform. And I'll give you, in certain circumstances or we're unhappy in certain circumstances. So a great example of that is in professional services, but particularly in the practice of law is the billable hour.
What we know. So if you are a lawyer practicing in a law firm, not working for the government or doing that or nonprofit or something. You Bill yourself out by the hour. And so what you do is that you have, you know, a way to, well, I'm going analog here, but you have on your computer or, you know, scribble down an account of what you're doing, literally in some cases, and six minute increments.
And what we know from research there is that makes people, that is incredibly thwarting to people sense of autonomy. And so there are all kinds of things in our relationship with time that if we reconfigure it, we can feel a little bit better, do a little bit more and.
Procrastination and productivity. Okay, let's talk about what productivity is. I'm gonna be literal. Productivity is the amount of units you produce over a given amount of time. So it is inherently time based because time is in the denominator of productivity.
And so, and so in some ways, productivity is the notion of productivity in that very literal sense is an artifact of our being an economy where we were producing identical mass produced goods. 
I think a way to, you know, a looser way to measure things is quality. And in quality contribution impact, those sorts of thing. And certainly for certain kinds of professions like, but like being a writer, writing more words is no measure of my contribution to the world.
How do you define leadership? What is it that makes somebody tick? Great technology companies in the world and one of the great companies in the world, and now you're building and operating one of the great foundations in the world. How do you compare the challenge of building Microsoft to the challenge of now running the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation?
And so let's talk about Microsoft for a moment. So you started that when you were in high school and you were driven to be involved with computers, where you alone were that many people knew about computers in those days.
So what did your family think? Did they say there's something wrong with this young man? He wants to just do computers?
Mode. So in the early days, you know, you were just a college dropout. You were very young looking. Did you get taken seriously by businessmen who are much older?
So your company grows, it becomes successful, becomes the most valuable company in the world at one point. At what point do you say, I've made a fair amount of money, I don't need to do this anymore. I wanna do something else with my life.
Mentioned you got married in 1994. You married a Duke graduate. How do you have time to woo somebody when you're running your company? And how much time did that take? 
It feels really great. It's A really interesting community and there's so much energy in there. And what I thought was interesting covering tech and humanity is, you know, normally at this developer's conference, you are trying to get people to pick up their phone. More and more, you guys are announcing all sorts of things that people are interested in will make them pick up the phone. You guys announce a tech addiction tool that will almost help us limit our screen time. And the idea is maybe put down the phone a little bit more and limit our time. So what's the thinking behind？
So how about you? What was, did you use this feature? Did it's called Screen Time. You use this feature. So tell me about your own tech habit.
I Mean, when did you start designing? When did you realize that the smartphone, that the iPhone had become more addictive than maybe you guys had a plan for it to? When did you start designing these features?
You see apple making these decisions, you know, based on, you know, if this is impacting us. Do you think that tech companies are in a position right now where they can self regulate with some of these more sticky issues?
Do you think, I mean, it's interesting to hear you say that. I just haven't covered a lot of this over the last month. I keep coming back to this fundamental question, and you can tell me if this is too philosophically, but I come back to this fundamental question, do we as users just have to reinvision the idea of privacy? Is it a luxury this point? 
One of the interesting points today, and I know this is an issue near and dear to you and to apple. You guys created a pride feature for Apple Watch. You know, just this morning, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of a Colorado baker who refused to bake cake and Celebration of a same sex couple. As a leader in the community as apple has, you know, continuously stood in front of LGBTQ rights, what's your reaction? .
I Mean, how do you view your role as both a business leader and a strong advocate in this community in an admin, in administration that's been more insensitive, someone would argue has been more insensitive towards the community.
You know, before I kind of ended, I know that there is this fear of the impact on consumers and will iPhone prices go up if there's an escalated trade war? I'd be curious. You know, I know you said you're optimistic before. Are you still optimistic?
Wow, that is something so interesting. So because I just searched the website and then probably the Wikipedia told me that many people in like English speaking countries, they take the gap here for traveling, like doing the internships. But I think you just show me a different picture of the story.
So based on your story, I'm not sure whether I understand correctly, is that it seems that gap here is one of your mainstream or main culture is something very popular in your country because the students need the gap here to find opportunities for.
The reason I want to explore gap years because I want to explore how young people in different countries dealing with the issue of social clock. I don't know whether you have heard about this.
Okay. So do not care about my understanding for definitions about gap here. What do you think or how do you define a gap here in your country?
So, Danny, when you are traveling, like doing nothing for six weeks, would you sometimes feel probably like guilty when you're doing nothing? Would you feel that way?
Okay, okay, okay. Alright, great. So can I ask what's what are you doing during your gap year then? Are you traveling? Are you relaxing? Are you, yeah, pursuing other goals? What do you do?
I like your point when you mention the feeling like falling behind. So I just want to ask, like, how do you deal with that kind of peer pressure?
I recommended this book last year as one of my top 10 books and pushing it out as much as I can. So I'm excited to dive into it. But I wanna actually start off with something that I saw on your Twitter profile. I think it was yesterday or a couple of days ago, where you recommend, you actually recommended Trevor Noa's audiobook oh crime for a book to study with for high school students. And I was understanding why, particularly that book？
Love that. No, it's a great recommendation. I think that's awesome. And it's always nice to hear authors and very successful authors recommending other authors and audiobooks. So I think that's brilliant.
And sometimes I feel like I feel this pressure is as a thinker or a sharer or whatever you wanna call us. You know, I have this pressure of like, oh, well, maybe I'm making things too easy to understand. And actually hearing you say that, it's so like before crashing for me, because I'm like, no, I want people to be able to practice it and just get it in one, you know, so that's a beautiful part of culture. And what part of the culture did you feel that? Was it architecture? Was it language? Was it, you know, where was that in the country?
Yeah, I mean, you're a phenomenal public speaker as well. And if anyone's never seen down on stage, just go on YouTube and just watch him on stage, whether it's Ted or other events.
Is productivity even the goal of time? Because I feel like today, one of the biggest challenges that I get asked at least, and maybe your children experience this, or maybe what I see outside the word of social media is a lot of people today spend a lot of time overthinking and procrastinating and that's seen as a negative thing. 
And people are often like scared of overthinking, scared of procrastinating, or they judge themselves and then they start getting into this kind of like, you know, vicious circle and cycle of feeling like, oh, like I'm wasting a lot of time here. Tell me about what you found or even your thoughts on productivity as a goal of time versus the effective use, if possible, of procrastination and other thinking.
Yeah, so if anyone's listing or watching right now is like, again, I'm, I just feel like I procrastinate a law. I overthink a lot. And I waste time. What would be your response.
Yeah, that's a great answer. I love that perception because I think as soon as you start labeling and going, oh, my procrastination's bad and this is not a good place to be in. You're right. You just, every, all of that is just avoiding the actual emotion, which is a signal or a sign or an alert that's kind of trying to get your attention, tension, and you just keep putting it away. 
That's so true. And that's really, it's kind of like when we're like, I can't make my mind out, right? Like even that same is exactly in that belief where you're just spending so much time trying to make your mind up and decide something.
What? I love that. How do you do that for other people? So if you're leading teams, if you've got a small team, a big team, a company, how do you kind of help people realize the progress they're making? Is that fun? Yeah, there's something you can do for yourself, but yeah, how do you do for others?
And it's almost like gamifying your mind, right? Because you know that if you got three things done yesterday, you might wanna get four done today. So you push a bit further.
I'm not gonna ask Dan all those questions because they're in the book and that's why I recommend the book. I wanna ask Dan stuff that isn't in the book or is extending the book. And part, I think one of the biggest questions I do get asked that I do want to talk about is relationship. Because I think dating and getting married and knowing when to either pop the question or when you should expect the question. 
Like these are like some of the biggest challenges in the world for on a personal individual level for people. And so tell me about some of the work that you found when it came to not just like when's the best time to get married, but it's almost like when did people, when did, or what did you find when people said they knew or they felt they'd found the right person?
Right? No, it would be fascinating also to look at things like amount of time couple spent together, but amount of time couple spent arguing on useful arguments maybe too.
And that's scary to think about when, when you think about that for a moment. But, anyway, you have been amazing with your time, Dan. I'm really grateful. I could talk to you for hours and hours. You're literally.
Nice. Great. Awesome. Okay, two more questions left. Fourth question. What is something that you know to be true that many people disagree with you on something that you're so sure about. But a ton of people would like not, Daniel, tell you wrong.
Sure. Great. It's a good answer. I mean, it's an intriguing point. Okay, fifth and final question. What is the biggest lesson you've Learned the last 12 months?
When your mother first said, I'd like you to come and have dinner with me and Warren Buffett will be here, you should meet him. You didn't seem that interested. Why was that?
So you have decided that your foundation would focus principally, but other things as well, but principally on health in Africa and K to 12 education in United States. Is that right?
So how did you come to those conclusions, that those were the two things you wanted to work on as opposed to everything else?
Your foundation has a certain life. It's not a perpetual foundation, is it? I think it's a 20 years after either you or your wife, the last one to live, dies that it would end. Is that how it works? 
When you were doing Microsoft, the beginning, you were doing the coding yourself and you could presume no more than about coding just about anybody. But now do you have so many other responsibilities when Microsoft develops a new piece of software, are you able to really talk to the software engineers in the same level that you could 20 years ago?
When somebody turns on their computer today, they have to have three fingers usually, and they put a finger on control, out and delete, and it seems a little awkward to do that. Why did you do that and why did people have to have that mechanism to turn on the computer?
What about your children? Everybody who's wealthy, who has children has to deal with. How do you train your children to live with the wealth? How much do you give them? And how do you get them involved in philanthropies?
Is that part of the announcement? I know this is getting tons of chatter online, part of the announcement was giving users the ability to block tracking. And specifically there was, you know, there was the image of a Facebook up there. Is this apple stepping up where other companies aren't doing the job? And what was the thinking behind kind giving? Cuz it's certainly a very interesting moment to make this announcement.
Tell me about the importance about of the developer community here because I think the developer community people don't know, you know, WWDC and what it is exactly, but this community is vital to apple, even as you guys near a trillion dollar evaluation, this community here today is incredibly important to you guys.
And I mean, let's look at a lot. You said today that there are people from over 70 different countries here. What role has immigration played? And are you concerned at all with a lot of the stricter immigration policies? I know you've been outspoken on DACA.
And when you look at the company nearing a trillion dollar evaluation, that's astounding. I mean, for you personally, how does that feel?
I saw like one of the reasons you decided to join the company a long time ago was you loved Steve's, his ability to look at tech and its impact on humanity. And wanting to do the right thing for humanity. You are in an extraordinary role as a CEO of this company right now because there is the ability to impact humanity, and we are coming out of a complicated year where we've seen the power of tech, and there's some really complicated questions. Maybe it's not fair to ask this, but, and having known him so well, how do you think he'd feel about this moment in time?